Temporal Nexus: Main Encyclopedia (#3053)
temporalio/documentation: docs/encyclopedia/temporal-nexus-endpoints.mdx

---
id: nexus-endpoints

> title: Nexus Endpoints

Reviewer: There's a lot of content for the Nexus Operation that we should get in esp. for the Operation Lifecycle, Automatic Retries, Execution Semantics, and Versioning.

sidebar_label: Nexus Endpoints
description: Learn how to use the Nexus Endpoints as an API proxy that can serve one or more Nexus Services. 
toc_max_heading_level: 4
slug: /temporalnexus/endpoints
keywords:
  - Nexus Endpoints
  - service documentation
tags:
  - distributed systems
  - integration
  - temporal
---

### Nexus Endpoints {#nexus-endpoints}

A Nexus `Endpoint` is like an API proxy that can serve one or more Nexus `Services` from a target Namespace and target Task Queue that a `Worker` is listening on.
This enables presenting a clean API contract and hiding the underlying Temporal implementation, which may consist of internal `Workflows`, `Signals`, and other Temporal primitives.

Adding a Nexus `Endpoint` to the API Registry allows Nexus Operation requests to be sent to the underlying target Namespace and Task Queue, using the name of the Endpoint in the API Registry.
Temporal Cloud also provides built-in Endpoint access control in the form of a caller Namespace allowlist, which must be set for any caller to access a Nexus Endpoint, even if in the same Namespace.

> Multiple Nexus `Endpoints` can target the same target `Namespace`. For example you can add multiple Nexus Endpoints to a large monolithic Namespace as facades, refactor consumers to use the facade, and then refactor behind the facade by migrating the Endpoints (and underlying Temporal primitives) to separate Namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multiple Nexus `Endpoints` can target the same target `Namespace`. For example, to decompose a monolithic namespace into multiple Nexus Endpoints you can add multiple Nexus Endpoints that target the monolithic namespace, and then update the Endpoints to target  different Target Namespaces later.
```

> Multiple Nexus `Endpoints` can target the same target `Namespace`. For example you can add multiple Nexus Endpoints to a large monolithic Namespace as facades, refactor consumers to use the facade, and then refactor behind the facade by migrating the Endpoints (and underlying Temporal primitives) to separate Namespaces.

Author: A lot of this content will eventually have to be reworked through a stylistic review. I'm also finding some of it a bit hard to read.
